add new getting started flow (#1986)
urbit/urbit.org: content/getting-started/joining-groups.md

+++
title = "Joining groups"
tag = "around"
weight = 2
+++

Joining public groups is straightforward: search for the group host's Urbit ID, and join. Some groups are private, so you'll need approval to join.

And still other groups are secret!  Which means you can't find them, and you'll need to be invited to join.

Let's walk through the process of finding and joining a public group.

### 1. Open the Groups app

Once you’re on the network, you’ll see Landscape, which is filled with large applications tiles: Talk, Terminal, and Groups. Click on Groups.

![](https://media.urbit.org/site/additional-guides/groups-1.png)

### 2. Enter the group shortcode

To join a group, you'll need to know its host Urbit ID (e.g. ~bitbet-bolbel) or its full Urbit address, also called a shortcode.

Check out some public groups in the [urbit.org groups directory](/ecosystem?type=groups)

> As an example, we’ll start by joining UF, the official group of the Urbit Foundation.

Author: ```suggestion
As an example, we’ll start by joining UF, the Urbit Foundation's official group.
```

In the Groups app, click on "Find Groups" in the left column and enter `~halbex-palheb/uf-public`

Then click on the "Join" button once the group appears.

![](https://media.urbit.org/site/additional-guides/groups-2.png)

### 3. Join channels

> Give it a minute and you'll see the first default channel of the group.  For some larger groups with a large backlog, such as Urbit Community, this may require for than a minute.

Author: ```suggestion
After a few moments the default channels will load. For groups with a large backlog, such as Urbit Community (~bitbet-bolbel/urbit-community), this may take a few minutes.
```
